Debugging/ breakpoints in VS Code
A breakpoint is a technique of debugging. It’s accomplished by setting a stopping point on a specific line of code or condition so the code will pause execution at that point when you run your code in a debugger. This allows you to inspect variables, step through your code one line at a time, and use other debugging techniques. Then, you can resume execution of the code or restart from the beginning.

Breakpoints with VS Code
Visual Studio Code (“VS Code” or “VSCode”) is a tool that utilizes breakpoints. It is a free, open-source, integrated developer environment (IDE) from Microsoft that allows you to write, run, debug, and test your code in a single window. The VS Code works with almost any programming language, through an extensive system of plugins and extensions. 

When you run your code in the VS Code debugger, you can set breakpoints on any line of code. You can also set a breakpoint expression, and the debugger will only stop on that line when the expression is true. This can be used to set a breakpoint inside a loop. Rather than stop every time the loop executes, you can add a breakpoint expression to stop at one certain point where you think the problem might be.

When to use breakpoints with VS Code
You can use breakpoints with VS Code in several situations. For example: 

When your code is causing runtime errors or exceptions

When you have errors in loops or other complicated logic

When you need to inspect code and variables at specific points during execution

When you perform general debugging and testing of your program

The advantages of breakpoints include:

You can step through your code one line at a time.

You can watch the value of variables and see how they change as the code runs (without having to insert several print() statements in your code).

You can catch subtle errors more easily.

Disadvantages of breakpoints are:

Running code in a debugger is slower than running the code from the command line.

Setup is required with VS Code and the necessary Python extensions for a new project. It usually takes a few minutes to set up.

Key takeaways
Breakpoints are a debugging technique that pause the code execution at a predetermined line or point. VS Code, a popular open-source IDE, uses this technique. It allows you to write, run, debug, and test your code in a single window. One of the advantages of breakpoints is that you can step through your code one line at a time and watch the value of variables change as the code runs without having to insert several print () statements in your code.  
