Value stream mapping:
Is a technique used to analyze, design, and manage the flow of materials and information required to bring a product to a customer. 
Also known as a material and information flow map, VMS can help you identify bottlenecks in your value stream, inefficiencies in your
process, and current areas of improvement.
It can also help to reduce the number of steps in your process and help you visualize where handsoff occur. This way, you can identify where wait time 
is preventing work from moving through your system.

A significant goal of VMS is to reduce waste.

Another goal of a VSM is to incerease the efficiency of your processes. To do this, create a detailed map of all the necessary steps involved in your 
business process or a flowchart. Consider the example below:
1) Define the problem: What are you trying to solve or achieve?
2) List the steps you current process: For each step, make sure to note the amount of time needed, any imputs and outputs, and resources
both people and materials, necessary to complete each step.
3) Create and organize the map using the above data: Your goal 
4) FInd areas that can be improved:
5) Update tha map woth your findings 
6) Implement the new process  

####GItHub and delivery
-Webooks 

####GITHUB ACTIONS
is a feature of GitHub that allows you to run tasks whenever certain events occur in your code repository. With GitHub Actions, you are able to trigger any part of a CI/CD pipeline off any webhook on GitHub. 

To get started with GitHub Actions, go to the Actions tab in the GitHub repository. When opening the tab for the first time, you’ll find a description of GitHub Actions and some suggested workflows for your repository. These workflows build the code in your repository and run your tests either on GitHub-hosted virtual machines or on your own machines. You’ll receive the results of the tests in the pull request.

GitHub Actions has more than 13,000 pre-written and tested CI/CD workflows. If you would like to write your own workflows or customize an existing one, you can do it using YAML files. 

Because GitHub Actions is a general-purpose engine that runs tasks in response to events in the repository, you can use it for more than just CI/CD pipelines. Some examples:

Running a nightly build in the master branch for testing.

Cleaning up old issues or bug reports.

Creating a full-fledged bot that responds to comments or commands on a PR or issue. (“Issues” are like bug reports or support tickets.)

With a blue-green deployment, you can use automated monitoring to observe any differences between the blue and green populations. If there is a problem, you can instantly shut off traffic to the blue or green side and direct all user traffic to the other side until the problem is fixed.

Key takeaways
CD must be paired with CI and automated testing. The CD practices of using feature flags, incremental rollout, canary releases, and blue-green deployments will minimize problems that often are caused by human errors.

